Scicloud manuals (#805)
ubvu/open-handbook: tools/scicloud/trouble_access.qmd

---
title: Troubleshooting Access
---
Sometimes you can run into errors that leave the server inaccessible by SSH. In that case you could first try to reboot the server from the OpenNebula Console. 

## Reboot
Log in to the [OpenNebula Console](https://one.labs.vu.nl), with your VUnetId as username.

::: {.callout-important}
To access the web interface from outside the VU campus use [EduVPN institute access](https://vu.eduvpn.nl).
:::

- Go to Instances > VMs and double-click your VM

![Reboot](/public/tools/scicloud/reboot.png)

> - Click on the reboot button. _Reboot_ will try to stop running software first, _Reboot Hard_ will immediately shutdown the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click on the reboot button. _Reboot_ will try to stop running software first, _Reboot Hard_ will immediately shut down the server.
```
